README.md, before:

# Samsung Washer Card

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)
[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/raulpetruta/samsung-ha-washer-card)](https://github.com/raulpetruta/samsung-ha-washer-card)

A beautiful, animated Home Assistant card for Samsung washing machines with SmartThings integration.

## Features

🎨 **Modern Design**
- Beautiful appliance-inspired color scheme
- Automatic light/dark mode support
- Smooth animations and hover effects

🔄 **Animated Washing Machine**
- Color-coded status light (Aqua/Green/Amber)

📊 **Rich Information Display**
- Energy consumption and water usage
- Completion time with smart formatting
- All sensor data in organized grid layout
- Configuration and control status

⚙️ **Highly Configurable**
- Custom device names
- Configurable icons (emoji or MDI)
- Adjustable completion status duration

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Open HACS in your Home Assistant
2. Go to "Frontend" section
3. Click "Explore & Download Repositories"
4. Search for "Samsung Washer Card"
5. Download and install
6. Restart Home Assistant

### Manual Installation

1. Download `samsung-washer-card.js` from the [latest release](https://github.com/raulpetruta/samsung-ha-washer-card)
2. Copy to `/config/www/samsung-washer-card/samsung-washer-card.js`
3. Add to your Lovelace resources:

```yaml
resources:
  - url: /local/samsung-washer-card/samsung-washer-card.js
    type: module
```

## Configuration

### Visual Editor (Recommended)

The card now includes a visual configuration editor! Simply:

1. Add the card to your dashboard
2. Click "Configure" or the edit button
3. Use the visual interface to set all options including:
   - Device name and icon
   - Grid layout options for full width control
   - Status display duration

### Get the device_name

Under Controls, click on the first option
![Get device_name step 1](screenshots/setup-1.png)

Your device_name will be "X" (what's after the "select.")
![Get device_name step 2](screenshots/setup-2.png)

### Manual Configuration

#### Basic Configuration

```yaml
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine  # Replace with your device name
```

#### Full Configuration

```yaml
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "mdi:washing-machine"  # Custom icon (emoji or MDI)
complete_status_for_x_hours: 2  # Hours to show "completed" status
grid_columns: 12  # Full width (1-12)
grid_rows: 12     # Card height
min_rows: 8       # Minimum height
max_rows: 20      # Maximum height
```

## Configuration Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `device_name` | string | **Required** | Name of your Samsung washer device |
| `icon` | string | `🧺` | Icon for the card header (emoji or `mdi:icon-name`) |
| `complete_status_for_x_hours` | number | `2` | Hours to show green "completed" status light |

## Supported Entities

The card automatically detects these entity types for your device:

### Sensors
- `sensor.{device_name}_machine_state`
- `sensor.{device_name}_job_state`
- `sensor.{device_name}_completion_time`
- `sensor.{device_name}_energy`
- `sensor.{device_name}_energy_saved`
- `sensor.{device_name}_power`
- `sensor.{device_name}_water_consumption`

### Binary Sensors
- `binary_sensor.{device_name}_child_lock`
- `binary_sensor.{device_name}_remote_control`
- `binary_sensor.{device_name}_power`

### Controls
- `switch.{device_name}_bubble_soak`
- `select.{device_name}_detergent_dispense_amount`
- `select.{device_name}_spin_level`
- `number.{device_name}_rinse_cycles`

## Examples

### With Custom Icon

```yaml
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "mdi:washing-machine"
```

### Multiple Washers

```yaml
# Kitchen Washer
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "🏠"

# Laundry Room Washer  
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "mdi:tumble-dryer"
```

## Screenshots

### Light Mode
![Light Mode](screenshots/eye-burn-mode.png)

### Dark Mode
![Dark Mode](screenshots/dark-mode.png)

## Development

The project has a clean, modular structure:

```text
src/
├── main.js              # Main card class
├── components/          # UI components
├── styles/              # CSS styles
└── utils/               # Helper utilities
```

### Building for Distribution

```bash
npm run build    # Creates samsung-washer-card.js for HACS
npm run dev      # Development build
npm run clean    # Clean build files
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

If you find this card useful, consider:

- ⭐ Starring this repository
- 🐛 Reporting issues
- 💡 Suggesting new features
- ☕ [Buying me a coffee](https://buymeacoffee.com/raulpetruta)

Commit message:

Update HACS installation instructions for clarity and detail

README.md, after:

# Samsung Washer Card

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)
[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/raulpetruta/samsung-ha-washer-card)](https://github.com/raulpetruta/samsung-ha-washer-card)

A beautiful, animated Home Assistant card for Samsung washing machines with SmartThings integration.

## Features

🎨 **Modern Design**
- Beautiful appliance-inspired color scheme
- Automatic light/dark mode support
- Smooth animations and hover effects

🔄 **Animated Washing Machine**
- Color-coded status light (Aqua/Green/Amber)

📊 **Rich Information Display**
- Energy consumption and water usage
- Completion time with smart formatting
- All sensor data in organized grid layout
- Configuration and control status

⚙️ **Highly Configurable**
- Custom device names
- Configurable icons (emoji or MDI)
- Adjustable completion status duration

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Open HACS in your Home Assistant
2. Go to the 3 dots on top right
3. Click "Custom repositories"
4. For "Repository", add "https://github.com/raulpetruta/samsung-ha-washer-card"
5. For "Type", choose "Dashboard"
6. Click "Add"
7. Search for "Samsung Washer Card"
8. Click the Download button and install it
9. After the installation is done, click "Reload" as prompted

### Manual Installation

1. Download `samsung-washer-card.js` from the [latest release](https://github.com/raulpetruta/samsung-ha-washer-card)
2. Copy to `/config/www/samsung-washer-card/samsung-washer-card.js`
3. Add to your Lovelace resources:

```yaml
resources:
  - url: /local/samsung-washer-card/samsung-washer-card.js
    type: module
```

## Configuration

### Visual Editor (Recommended)

The card now includes a visual configuration editor! Simply:

1. Add the card to your dashboard
2. Click "Configure" or the edit button
3. Use the visual interface to set all options including:
   - Device name and icon
   - Grid layout options for full width control
   - Status display duration

### Get the device_name

Under Controls, click on the first option
![Get device_name step 1](screenshots/setup-1.png)

Your device_name will be "X" (what's after the "select.")
![Get device_name step 2](screenshots/setup-2.png)

### Manual Configuration

#### Basic Configuration

```yaml
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine  # Replace with your device name
```

#### Full Configuration

```yaml
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "mdi:washing-machine"  # Custom icon (emoji or MDI)
complete_status_for_x_hours: 2  # Hours to show "completed" status
grid_columns: 12  # Full width (1-12)
grid_rows: 12     # Card height
min_rows: 8       # Minimum height
max_rows: 20      # Maximum height
```

## Configuration Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `device_name` | string | **Required** | Name of your Samsung washer device |
| `icon` | string | `🧺` | Icon for the card header (emoji or `mdi:icon-name`) |
| `complete_status_for_x_hours` | number | `2` | Hours to show green "completed" status light |

## Supported Entities

The card automatically detects these entity types for your device:

### Sensors
- `sensor.{device_name}_machine_state`
- `sensor.{device_name}_job_state`
- `sensor.{device_name}_completion_time`
- `sensor.{device_name}_energy`
- `sensor.{device_name}_energy_saved`
- `sensor.{device_name}_power`
- `sensor.{device_name}_water_consumption`

### Binary Sensors
- `binary_sensor.{device_name}_child_lock`
- `binary_sensor.{device_name}_remote_control`
- `binary_sensor.{device_name}_power`

### Controls
- `switch.{device_name}_bubble_soak`
- `select.{device_name}_detergent_dispense_amount`
- `select.{device_name}_spin_level`
- `number.{device_name}_rinse_cycles`

## Examples

### With Custom Icon

```yaml
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "mdi:washing-machine"
```

### Multiple Washers

```yaml
# Kitchen Washer
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "🏠"

# Laundry Room Washer  
type: custom:samsung-washer-card
device_name: washing_machine
icon: "mdi:tumble-dryer"
```

## Screenshots

### Light Mode
![Light Mode](screenshots/eye-burn-mode.png)

### Dark Mode
![Dark Mode](screenshots/dark-mode.png)

## Development

The project has a clean, modular structure:

```text
src/
├── main.js              # Main card class
├── components/          # UI components
├── styles/              # CSS styles
└── utils/               # Helper utilities
```

### Building for Distribution

```bash
npm run build    # Creates samsung-washer-card.js for HACS
npm run dev      # Development build
npm run clean    # Clean build files
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

If you find this card useful, consider:

- ⭐ Starring this repository
- 🐛 Reporting issues
- 💡 Suggesting new features
- ☕ [Buying me a coffee](https://buymeacoffee.com/raulpetruta)
